ROADMAP/PHASE_4.5_SECURITY_FIXES.md, before:

# Phase 4.5: Pre-Production Security Fixes

[← Back to Roadmap](README.md)

---

**Priority**: CRITICAL - Security hardening before public launch
**Status**: ✅ **COMPLETED** (2026-02-01)
**Delivered Version**: v0.5.3
**Business Value**: Essential for production deployment
**Scope**: Critical security vulnerabilities from audit + final PII hardening

---


**Priority**: CRITICAL - MUST complete before production deployment
**Status**: ✅ **COMPLETED** - 100% (14/14 issues resolved + 3 additional fixes)
**Completed**: JWT Token Storage (localStorage → HTTP-only cookies) - ✅ DONE
**Additional Fixes**: PII encryption, sessionStorage migration, magic link authentication
**Testing Phase**: Ready for internal testing with Cloudflare tunnel + OAuth
**Post-Testing**: Security headers and HTTPS may need review if removing Cloudflare
**Last Updated**: 2026-02-01

### Overview
Security audit revealed CRITICAL vulnerabilities that MUST be fixed before deploying to production Ubuntu server. These issues were discovered during pre-deployment review on 2025-12-06.

**All critical security issues have been resolved.** ✅ Production deployment is no longer blocked by security concerns.

### 🚨 CRITICAL ISSUES (MUST FIX - Blocking)

#### 4.5.1 SQL Injection Vulnerabilities - CVSS 9.0
**Risk**: Complete database compromise, data exfiltration
**Status**: ✅ **FIXED** (2025-12-06)

**Affected Files**:
- `app/repositories/customer_repository.py` (lines 27-28, 38)
- `app/repositories/admin_claim_repository.py` (lines 71, 90-94)
- `app/repositories/file_repository.py` (lines 169-171)

**Problem**: User input directly interpolated into SQL ILIKE queries using f-strings

**Solution Implemented**: ✅ **Option A** - SQLAlchemy bindparam for parameterized queries

**Tasks**:
- [x] Fix customer_repository.py search functions (search_by_name, search_by_email)
- [x] Fix admin_claim_repository.py search and filter functions (airline filter, search)
- [x] Fix file_repository.py search functions (search_files)
- [ ] Add SQL injection tests
- [ ] Verify fixes with security scan

#### 4.5.2 Exposed Secrets in Repository - CVSS 8.2
**Risk**: Credential exposure, unauthorized access
**Status**: ⚠️ **PARTIALLY FIXED** (2025-12-06)

**Problem**: `.env` file with SMTP password committed to git repository

**Tasks**:
- [x] Remove `.env` from git tracking (`git rm --cached .env`)
- [x] Create `.env.example` template without secrets
- [x] Verify `.env` is in `.gitignore` (already present)
- [x] Document secrets management (see SECURITY_ACTION_REQUIRED.md)
- [ ] **USER ACTION REQUIRED**: Revoke exposed Gmail app password
- [ ] **USER ACTION REQUIRED**: Generate new app-specific password
- [ ] **OPTIONAL**: Remove `.env` from git history with BFG/git-filter-repo

**See**: `SECURITY_ACTION_REQUIRED.md` for detailed rotation instructions

#### 4.5.3 Wildcard CORS Configuration - CVSS 8.1
**Risk**: Cross-origin data theft, CSRF attacks
**Status**: ✅ **FIXED** (2025-12-06)

**Location**: `app/main.py:50`

**Problem**: `allow_origins=["*"]` combined with `allow_credentials=True`

**Solution Implemented**: Changed to `allow_origins=config.CORS_ORIGINS`

**Tasks**:
- [x] Update CORS middleware to use `config.CORS_ORIGINS`
- [x] Remove hardcoded wildcard from main.py
- [ ] Set specific production domains in `.env` for deployment
- [ ] Test CORS with specific origins

#### 4.5.4 Blacklist Bypass in Authentication - CVSS 7.8
**Risk**: Deleted users can still log in, GDPR violation
**Status**: ✅ **FIXED** (2025-12-06)

**Location**: `app/services/auth_service.py`

**Problem**: Blacklisted users can still authenticate

**Solution Implemented**: Added `is_blacklisted` and `is_active` checks to all auth methods

**Tasks**:
- [x] Add `is_blacklisted` check in `login_user` function
- [x] Add `is_active` check in `login_user` function (already existed)
- [x] Add blacklist check in magic link authentication (`verify_magic_link_token`)
- [x] Add `is_active` check in magic link authentication
- [ ] Add blacklist tests
- [ ] Verify blacklisted users cannot log in

### ⚠️ HIGH PRIORITY ISSUES (Fix Before Launch)

#### 4.5.5 Missing Rate Limiting - CVSS 7.3
**Risk**: Brute force attacks, account enumeration
**Status**: ✅ **COMPLETED** (2026-02-02)

**Solution Implemented**: ✅ **Redis-based comprehensive rate limiting with Cloudflare support**

**Implementation Details**:
- Upgraded to Redis-based `slowapi` Limiter for shared state across worker processes.
- Unified IP detection supporting `CF-Connecting-IP` (Cloudflare), `X-Forwarded-For`, and `X-Real-IP`.
- Applied specific rate limits to all critical endpoints:
  - Auth: Register (3/hour), Login (5/minute), Password Reset (3/15min)
  - Flights: Status lookup (10/minute), Search (10/minute), Airport search (20/minute)
  - Eligibility: Public check (20/minute)
  - Claims: Create (5/hour), Submit (5/hour), OCR extraction (5/minute)
  - Files: Upload (10/minute), Download (100/minute)
- Enabled `FileSecurityMiddleware` for additional hourly limits and suspicious activity detection.

**Tasks**:
- [x] Choose rate limiting approach (Redis-based slowapi)
- [x] Implement rate limits on `/auth/login` (5/minute)
- [x] Implement rate limits on `/auth/register` (3/hour)
- [x] Implement rate limits on `/auth/password/reset-request` (3/15minutes)
- [x] Implement rate limits on flight search and status (10/minute)
- [x] Implement rate limits on claim submission (5/hour)
- [x] Implement rate limits on file uploads/downloads
- [x] Test rate limits across multiple processes (Redis-verified)

#### 4.5.6 Missing HTTPS Configuration - CVSS 7.4
**Risk**: Man-in-the-middle attacks, credential interception
**Status**: ✅ **HANDLED BY CLOUDFLARE** (Testing Phase)

**Current Setup**:
- Cloudflare Tunnel handles HTTPS termination
- OAuth authentication required to access through Cloudflare
- Only accessible to team during testing phase

**Future (Post-Testing)**:
- [ ] May need direct HTTPS if removing Cloudflare (GDPR considerations)
- [ ] Obtain SSL certificate (Let's Encrypt recommended)
- [ ] Update nginx.conf with SSL configuration
- [ ] Add HTTP -> HTTPS redirect
- [ ] Configure SSL protocols (TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3 only)
- [ ] Add HSTS header
- [ ] Update `CORS_ORIGINS` to use https://
- [ ] Test SSL with SSL Labs

#### 4.5.7 Password Strength Inconsistency - CVSS 6.5
**Risk**: Weak passwords via account settings
**Status**: ✅ **N/A - NOT APPLICABLE**

**Reason**: Application uses **passwordless authentication** (magic links only)
- No password registration or storage
- Users authenticate via email magic links
- No password strength requirements needed
- This security issue does not apply to this application

#### 4.5.8 Security Headers Disabled - CVSS 6.5
**Risk**: XSS, clickjacking, MIME-sniffing attacks
**Status**: ⏸️ **DEFERRED - Cloudflare handles during testing**

**Current Setup (Testing Phase)**:
- Cloudflare Tunnel provides HTTPS and can add security headers
- OAuth authentication protects test environment
- Headers can be configured in Cloudflare dashboard (Transform Rules)

**Future Implementation (Post-Testing, if removing Cloudflare)**:
- [ ] **Decision Required**: Choose implementation approach
  - **Option A**: Create SecurityHeadersMiddleware in FastAPI
  - **Option B**: Configure in nginx reverse proxy
- [ ] Add security headers:
  - HSTS (Strict-Transport-Security)
  - X-Frame-Options: DENY
  - X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
  - Content-Security-Policy
  - X-XSS-Protection
- [ ] Test header presence with curl
- [ ] Verify CSP doesn't break frontend functionality

**Note**: May be required if removing Cloudflare for GDPR compliance

### 📋 MEDIUM PRIORITY (Hardening)

#### 4.5.9 Development Secrets in Config
- [ ] Remove default passwords from config.py
- [ ] Add production config validation
- [ ] Fail fast if production secrets missing

#### 4.5.10 Missing Database Connection Pool Limits
- [ ] Configure pool_size=20 in database.py
- [ ] Add max_overflow=10
- [ ] Add pool_timeout=30
- [ ] Add pool_recycle=3600

#### 4.5.11 Insufficient Security Audit Logging
- [ ] Create security logger
- [ ] Log failed login attempts
- [ ] Log successful logins with IP
- [ ] Log admin privilege changes
- [ ] Configure log rotation

#### 4.5.12 Missing Input Sanitization for XSS
- [ ] Install bleach library
- [ ] Sanitize claim notes
- [ ] Sanitize customer names in emails
- [ ] Escape HTML in email templates

#### 4.5.13 Admin Email Configuration
- [ ] Add `ADMIN_EMAIL` to .env
- [ ] Update account deletion notifications
- [ ] Update error notifications

#### 4.5.14 JWT Token Storage Security - CVSS 8.1 🔒 **COMPLETED**
**Risk**: XSS attacks can steal JWT tokens from localStorage (**MITIGATED**)
**Status**: ✅ **COMPLETED** (2025-12-29)
**Priority**: HIGH - Completed before public launch
**Last Updated**: 2025-12-29

**Problem**: JWT tokens (access & refresh) currently stored in localStorage
- **Current Implementation**: `frontend_Claude45/src/utils/tokenStorage.ts` uses localStorage
- **Vulnerability**: JavaScript (including malicious XSS scripts) can access localStorage
- **Impact**: If XSS vulnerability exists, attackers can steal tokens and impersonate users

**Affected Files**:
- `frontend_Claude45/src/utils/tokenStorage.ts` - Token storage utility
- `frontend_Claude45/src/services/auth.ts` - Auth service (reads from localStorage)
- `frontend_Claude45/src/services/api.ts` - API client (reads from localStorage)
- `frontend_Claude45/src/pages/*.tsx` - Multiple pages access localStorage directly
- `app/routers/auth.py` - Backend needs to set cookies instead of returning JSON tokens

**Solution**: Migrate to HTTP-only cookies
- **Backend Changes**: Set cookies in response instead of returning tokens in JSON body
- **Frontend Changes**: Remove localStorage usage, rely on automatic cookie transmission
- **Configuration**: Set `httpOnly=True`, `secure=True`, `samesite='lax'`

**Tasks**:
- [x] **Backend**: Update `/auth/login` to set HTTP-only cookies ✅
- [x] **Backend**: Update `/auth/register` to set HTTP-only cookies ✅
- [x] **Backend**: Update `/auth/refresh` to read from and set HTTP-only cookies ✅
- [x] **Backend**: Update `/auth/logout` to clear cookies ✅
- [x] **Backend**: Update `/auth/magic-link/verify` to set HTTP-only cookies ✅
- [x] **Backend**: Add cookie helper functions (set_auth_cookies, clear_auth_cookies) ✅
- [x] **Backend**: Configure cookies (httpOnly=True, secure=production, samesite='lax') ✅
- [x] **Frontend**: Deleted `tokenStorage.ts` utility ✅
- [x] **Frontend**: Updated API client with `withCredentials: true` ✅
- [x] **Frontend**: Removed all localStorage token access from auth.ts ✅
- [x] **Frontend**: Removed tokenStorage from claims.ts ✅
- [x] **Frontend**: Removed tokenStorage from MagicLinkPage.tsx ✅
- [x] **Config**: CORS already configured with `allow_credentials=True` ✅
- [ ] **Config**: Set cookie domain for production (needs deployment config)
- [ ] **Testing**: Manual testing required (login, API requests, logout)
- [ ] **Security**: CSP headers (future enhancement)
- [x] **Documentation**: Updated ROADMAP.md with completion status ✅

**Reference Documentation**:
- See `docs/JWT_SECURITY_EXPLAINED.md` for detailed explanation and migration guide
- Security checklist in JWT_SECURITY_EXPLAINED.md:464-472

**GDPR Consideration**:
- ⚠️ After migrating to cookies, must implement cookie consent banner for EU compliance
- See Phase 4.6 for cookie consent implementation details
- Required before public launch in EU markets

**Version**: This should trigger v0.3.1 release (security patch)

### Success Criteria

Before deployment is approved:

- [ ] ✅ All 4 CRITICAL issues resolved
- [ ] ✅ All 4 HIGH priority issues resolved
- [ ] ✅ Security scan shows no critical/high vulnerabilities
- [ ] ✅ Penetration testing completed
- [ ] ✅ SSL certificate installed and tested
- [ ] ✅ Rate limiting verified with load testing
- [ ] ✅ CORS tested with production domains
- [ ] ✅ Blacklist enforcement verified
- [ ] ✅ All secrets rotated and secured
- [ ] ✅ Production .env file created (not committed)
- [ ] ✅ Deployment checklist completed

### Testing Requirements

**Security Testing**:
```bash
# SQL injection testing
sqlmap -u "http://localhost:8000/api/customers?name=test" --batch

# Dependency vulnerabilities
safety check

# OWASP ZAP scan
docker run -t owasp/zap2docker-stable zap-baseline.py -t http://localhost:8000

# SSL testing
ssllabs.com scan
```

**Manual Testing**:
- [ ] Attempt SQL injection in all search fields
- [ ] Test CORS with different origins
- [ ] Attempt login with blacklisted user
- [ ] Brute force login (should rate limit after 5 attempts)
- [ ] Test weak passwords (should reject <12 chars)
- [ ] Verify JWT expiration enforcement
- [ ] Test refresh token rotation

### Deployment Readiness Checklist

**Configuration**:
- [ ] `ENVIRONMENT=production`
- [ ] `DEBUG=false`
- [ ] `SECRET_KEY` = 64+ char unique value
- [ ] `FILE_ENCRYPTION_KEY` = Fernet key (backed up)
- [ ] `DATABASE_URL` = production PostgreSQL
- [ ] `REDIS_URL` = production Redis
- [ ] `NEXTCLOUD_URL` = production instance
- [ ] `NEXTCLOUD_PASSWORD` != default
- [ ] `CORS_ORIGINS` = specific domains only (https://)
- [ ] `SECURITY_HEADERS_ENABLED=true`
- [ ] `SMTP_*` credentials rotated
- [ ] `ADMIN_EMAIL` configured

**Infrastructure**:
- [ ] Ubuntu server prepared
- [ ] Docker and docker-compose installed
- [ ] Firewall configured (22, 80, 443)
- [ ] SSL certificate obtained
- [ ] nginx configured with HTTPS
- [ ] Database backups configured
- [ ] Log rotation configured
- [ ] Monitoring setup (optional but recommended)

**Documentation**:
- [ ] Production deployment guide created
- [ ] Secrets management documented
- [ ] Incident response plan created
- [ ] GDPR data deletion workflow documented

### Estimated Timeline

- **Day 1 (4-8 hours)**: Fix 4 critical issues
  - SQL injection fixes (2-3 hours)
  - Secret rotation (1 hour)
  - CORS configuration (30 min)
  - Blacklist enforcement (1 hour)
  - Testing (2-3 hours)

- **Day 2 (4-8 hours)**: Fix high priority issues
  - Rate limiting (2 hours)
  - HTTPS configuration (2 hours)
  - Password consistency (1 hour)
  - Security headers (1 hour)
  - Testing (2 hours)

- **Day 3 (Optional)**: Medium priority hardening
  - Audit logging (2 hours)
  - XSS sanitization (2 hours)
  - Additional testing (2 hours)

**Total**: 1-3 days depending on priority level

### Notes

**Why This Phase is Critical**:
- Application has good architecture and features
- Security fundamentals are in place (JWT, bcrypt, file encryption)
- Only specific vulnerabilities need patching
- Without fixes, production deployment would be **irresponsible and dangerous**

**Post-Fix Benefits**:
- Production-ready security posture
- GDPR compliant
- Protection against common attacks
- Professional security standards
- Multi-user concurrent access safe

---

## Phase 5: Multi-Passenger Claims (Family/Group Claims)

---

[← Back to Roadmap](README.md)

Commit message:

fix(security): optimize rate limiting and fix slowapi response requirements
- Increased global rate limit from 10 to 60 req/min in FileSecurityMiddleware to prevent false positives from rapid SPA auto-saves.
- Added missing 'response: Response' parameter to multiple endpoints (auth, claims, eligibility, files) to fix slowapi compatibility issues.
- Updated AGENTS.md with mandatory 🛑 CRITICAL NOTIFICATION MANDATE for RocketChat updates.
- Hardened commit-workflow skill documentation to include notification steps.
- Updated ROADMAP and time tracking for 2026-02-03.

Updated ROADMAP/PHASE_4.5_SECURITY_FIXES.md to reflect UX optimization.
Updated time_tracking_david.md with 2.0 hours for testing and security hardening.

ROADMAP/PHASE_4.5_SECURITY_FIXES.md, after:

# Phase 4.5: Pre-Production Security Fixes

[← Back to Roadmap](README.md)

---

**Priority**: CRITICAL - Security hardening before public launch
**Status**: ✅ **COMPLETED** (2026-02-01)
**Delivered Version**: v0.5.3
**Business Value**: Essential for production deployment
**Scope**: Critical security vulnerabilities from audit + final PII hardening

---


**Priority**: CRITICAL - MUST complete before production deployment
**Status**: ✅ **COMPLETED** - 100% (14/14 issues resolved + 3 additional fixes)
**Completed**: JWT Token Storage (localStorage → HTTP-only cookies) - ✅ DONE
**Additional Fixes**: PII encryption, sessionStorage migration, magic link authentication
**Testing Phase**: Ready for internal testing with Cloudflare tunnel + OAuth
**Post-Testing**: Security headers and HTTPS may need review if removing Cloudflare
**Last Updated**: 2026-02-01

### Overview
Security audit revealed CRITICAL vulnerabilities that MUST be fixed before deploying to production Ubuntu server. These issues were discovered during pre-deployment review on 2025-12-06.

**All critical security issues have been resolved.** ✅ Production deployment is no longer blocked by security concerns.

### 🚨 CRITICAL ISSUES (MUST FIX - Blocking)

#### 4.5.1 SQL Injection Vulnerabilities - CVSS 9.0
**Risk**: Complete database compromise, data exfiltration
**Status**: ✅ **FIXED** (2025-12-06)

**Affected Files**:
- `app/repositories/customer_repository.py` (lines 27-28, 38)
- `app/repositories/admin_claim_repository.py` (lines 71, 90-94)
- `app/repositories/file_repository.py` (lines 169-171)

**Problem**: User input directly interpolated into SQL ILIKE queries using f-strings

**Solution Implemented**: ✅ **Option A** - SQLAlchemy bindparam for parameterized queries

**Tasks**:
- [x] Fix customer_repository.py search functions (search_by_name, search_by_email)
- [x] Fix admin_claim_repository.py search and filter functions (airline filter, search)
- [x] Fix file_repository.py search functions (search_files)
- [ ] Add SQL injection tests
- [ ] Verify fixes with security scan

#### 4.5.2 Exposed Secrets in Repository - CVSS 8.2
**Risk**: Credential exposure, unauthorized access
**Status**: ⚠️ **PARTIALLY FIXED** (2025-12-06)

**Problem**: `.env` file with SMTP password committed to git repository

**Tasks**:
- [x] Remove `.env` from git tracking (`git rm --cached .env`)
- [x] Create `.env.example` template without secrets
- [x] Verify `.env` is in `.gitignore` (already present)
- [x] Document secrets management (see SECURITY_ACTION_REQUIRED.md)
- [ ] **USER ACTION REQUIRED**: Revoke exposed Gmail app password
- [ ] **USER ACTION REQUIRED**: Generate new app-specific password
- [ ] **OPTIONAL**: Remove `.env` from git history with BFG/git-filter-repo

**See**: `SECURITY_ACTION_REQUIRED.md` for detailed rotation instructions

#### 4.5.3 Wildcard CORS Configuration - CVSS 8.1
**Risk**: Cross-origin data theft, CSRF attacks
**Status**: ✅ **FIXED** (2025-12-06)

**Location**: `app/main.py:50`

**Problem**: `allow_origins=["*"]` combined with `allow_credentials=True`

**Solution Implemented**: Changed to `allow_origins=config.CORS_ORIGINS`

**Tasks**:
- [x] Update CORS middleware to use `config.CORS_ORIGINS`
- [x] Remove hardcoded wildcard from main.py
- [ ] Set specific production domains in `.env` for deployment
- [ ] Test CORS with specific origins

#### 4.5.4 Blacklist Bypass in Authentication - CVSS 7.8
**Risk**: Deleted users can still log in, GDPR violation
**Status**: ✅ **FIXED** (2025-12-06)

**Location**: `app/services/auth_service.py`

**Problem**: Blacklisted users can still authenticate

**Solution Implemented**: Added `is_blacklisted` and `is_active` checks to all auth methods

**Tasks**:
- [x] Add `is_blacklisted` check in `login_user` function
- [x] Add `is_active` check in `login_user` function (already existed)
- [x] Add blacklist check in magic link authentication (`verify_magic_link_token`)
- [x] Add `is_active` check in magic link authentication
- [ ] Add blacklist tests
- [ ] Verify blacklisted users cannot log in

### ⚠️ HIGH PRIORITY ISSUES (Fix Before Launch)

#### 4.5.5 Missing Rate Limiting - CVSS 7.3
**Risk**: Brute force attacks, account enumeration
**Status**: ✅ **COMPLETED** (2026-02-02)

**Solution Implemented**: ✅ **Redis-based comprehensive rate limiting with Cloudflare support**

**Implementation Details**:
- Upgraded to Redis-based `slowapi` Limiter for shared state across worker processes.
- Unified IP detection supporting `CF-Connecting-IP` (Cloudflare), `X-Forwarded-For`, and `X-Real-IP`.
- Applied specific rate limits to all critical endpoints:
  - Auth: Register (3/hour), Login (5/minute), Password Reset (3/15min)
  - Flights: Status lookup (10/minute), Search (10/minute), Airport search (20/minute)
  - Eligibility: Public check (20/minute)
  - Claims: Create (5/hour), Submit (5/hour), OCR extraction (5/minute)
  - Files: Upload (10/minute), Download (100/minute)
- Enabled `FileSecurityMiddleware` for additional hourly limits and suspicious activity detection.
- **2026-02-03 Update**: Increased global `max_requests_per_window` from 10 to 60 in `FileSecurityMiddleware` to prevent false positives from rapid SPA auto-saves and browser autofill.

**Tasks**:
- [x] Choose rate limiting approach (Redis-based slowapi)
- [x] Implement rate limits on `/auth/login` (5/minute)
- [x] Implement rate limits on `/auth/register` (3/hour)
- [x] Implement rate limits on `/auth/password/reset-request` (3/15minutes)
- [x] Implement rate limits on flight search and status (10/minute)
- [x] Implement rate limits on claim submission (5/hour)
- [x] Implement rate limits on file uploads/downloads
- [x] Test rate limits across multiple processes (Redis-verified)

#### 4.5.6 Missing HTTPS Configuration - CVSS 7.4
**Risk**: Man-in-the-middle attacks, credential interception
**Status**: ✅ **HANDLED BY CLOUDFLARE** (Testing Phase)

**Current Setup**:
- Cloudflare Tunnel handles HTTPS termination
- OAuth authentication required to access through Cloudflare
- Only accessible to team during testing phase

**Future (Post-Testing)**:
- [ ] May need direct HTTPS if removing Cloudflare (GDPR considerations)
- [ ] Obtain SSL certificate (Let's Encrypt recommended)
- [ ] Update nginx.conf with SSL configuration
- [ ] Add HTTP -> HTTPS redirect
- [ ] Configure SSL protocols (TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3 only)
- [ ] Add HSTS header
- [ ] Update `CORS_ORIGINS` to use https://
- [ ] Test SSL with SSL Labs

#### 4.5.7 Password Strength Inconsistency - CVSS 6.5
**Risk**: Weak passwords via account settings
**Status**: ✅ **N/A - NOT APPLICABLE**

**Reason**: Application uses **passwordless authentication** (magic links only)
- No password registration or storage
- Users authenticate via email magic links
- No password strength requirements needed
- This security issue does not apply to this application

#### 4.5.8 Security Headers Disabled - CVSS 6.5
**Risk**: XSS, clickjacking, MIME-sniffing attacks
**Status**: ⏸️ **DEFERRED - Cloudflare handles during testing**

**Current Setup (Testing Phase)**:
- Cloudflare Tunnel provides HTTPS and can add security headers
- OAuth authentication protects test environment
- Headers can be configured in Cloudflare dashboard (Transform Rules)

**Future Implementation (Post-Testing, if removing Cloudflare)**:
- [ ] **Decision Required**: Choose implementation approach
  - **Option A**: Create SecurityHeadersMiddleware in FastAPI
  - **Option B**: Configure in nginx reverse proxy
- [ ] Add security headers:
  - HSTS (Strict-Transport-Security)
  - X-Frame-Options: DENY
  - X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
  - Content-Security-Policy
  - X-XSS-Protection
- [ ] Test header presence with curl
- [ ] Verify CSP doesn't break frontend functionality

**Note**: May be required if removing Cloudflare for GDPR compliance

### 📋 MEDIUM PRIORITY (Hardening)

#### 4.5.9 Development Secrets in Config
- [ ] Remove default passwords from config.py
- [ ] Add production config validation
- [ ] Fail fast if production secrets missing

#### 4.5.10 Missing Database Connection Pool Limits
- [ ] Configure pool_size=20 in database.py
- [ ] Add max_overflow=10
- [ ] Add pool_timeout=30
- [ ] Add pool_recycle=3600

#### 4.5.11 Insufficient Security Audit Logging
- [ ] Create security logger
- [ ] Log failed login attempts
- [ ] Log successful logins with IP
- [ ] Log admin privilege changes
- [ ] Configure log rotation

#### 4.5.12 Missing Input Sanitization for XSS
- [ ] Install bleach library
- [ ] Sanitize claim notes
- [ ] Sanitize customer names in emails
- [ ] Escape HTML in email templates

#### 4.5.13 Admin Email Configuration
- [ ] Add `ADMIN_EMAIL` to .env
- [ ] Update account deletion notifications
- [ ] Update error notifications

#### 4.5.14 JWT Token Storage Security - CVSS 8.1 🔒 **COMPLETED**
**Risk**: XSS attacks can steal JWT tokens from localStorage (**MITIGATED**)
**Status**: ✅ **COMPLETED** (2025-12-29)
**Priority**: HIGH - Completed before public launch
**Last Updated**: 2025-12-29

**Problem**: JWT tokens (access & refresh) currently stored in localStorage
- **Current Implementation**: `frontend_Claude45/src/utils/tokenStorage.ts` uses localStorage
- **Vulnerability**: JavaScript (including malicious XSS scripts) can access localStorage
- **Impact**: If XSS vulnerability exists, attackers can steal tokens and impersonate users

**Affected Files**:
- `frontend_Claude45/src/utils/tokenStorage.ts` - Token storage utility
- `frontend_Claude45/src/services/auth.ts` - Auth service (reads from localStorage)
- `frontend_Claude45/src/services/api.ts` - API client (reads from localStorage)
- `frontend_Claude45/src/pages/*.tsx` - Multiple pages access localStorage directly
- `app/routers/auth.py` - Backend needs to set cookies instead of returning JSON tokens

**Solution**: Migrate to HTTP-only cookies
- **Backend Changes**: Set cookies in response instead of returning tokens in JSON body
- **Frontend Changes**: Remove localStorage usage, rely on automatic cookie transmission
- **Configuration**: Set `httpOnly=True`, `secure=True`, `samesite='lax'`

**Tasks**:
- [x] **Backend**: Update `/auth/login` to set HTTP-only cookies ✅
- [x] **Backend**: Update `/auth/register` to set HTTP-only cookies ✅
- [x] **Backend**: Update `/auth/refresh` to read from and set HTTP-only cookies ✅
- [x] **Backend**: Update `/auth/logout` to clear cookies ✅
- [x] **Backend**: Update `/auth/magic-link/verify` to set HTTP-only cookies ✅
- [x] **Backend**: Add cookie helper functions (set_auth_cookies, clear_auth_cookies) ✅
- [x] **Backend**: Configure cookies (httpOnly=True, secure=production, samesite='lax') ✅
- [x] **Frontend**: Deleted `tokenStorage.ts` utility ✅
- [x] **Frontend**: Updated API client with `withCredentials: true` ✅
- [x] **Frontend**: Removed all localStorage token access from auth.ts ✅
- [x] **Frontend**: Removed tokenStorage from claims.ts ✅
- [x] **Frontend**: Removed tokenStorage from MagicLinkPage.tsx ✅
- [x] **Config**: CORS already configured with `allow_credentials=True` ✅
- [ ] **Config**: Set cookie domain for production (needs deployment config)
- [ ] **Testing**: Manual testing required (login, API requests, logout)
- [ ] **Security**: CSP headers (future enhancement)
- [x] **Documentation**: Updated ROADMAP.md with completion status ✅

**Reference Documentation**:
- See `docs/JWT_SECURITY_EXPLAINED.md` for detailed explanation and migration guide
- Security checklist in JWT_SECURITY_EXPLAINED.md:464-472

**GDPR Consideration**:
- ⚠️ After migrating to cookies, must implement cookie consent banner for EU compliance
- See Phase 4.6 for cookie consent implementation details
- Required before public launch in EU markets

**Version**: This should trigger v0.3.1 release (security patch)

### Success Criteria

Before deployment is approved:

- [ ] ✅ All 4 CRITICAL issues resolved
- [ ] ✅ All 4 HIGH priority issues resolved
- [ ] ✅ Security scan shows no critical/high vulnerabilities
- [ ] ✅ Penetration testing completed
- [ ] ✅ SSL certificate installed and tested
- [ ] ✅ Rate limiting verified with load testing
- [ ] ✅ CORS tested with production domains
- [ ] ✅ Blacklist enforcement verified
- [ ] ✅ All secrets rotated and secured
- [ ] ✅ Production .env file created (not committed)
- [ ] ✅ Deployment checklist completed

### Testing Requirements

**Security Testing**:
```bash
# SQL injection testing
sqlmap -u "http://localhost:8000/api/customers?name=test" --batch

# Dependency vulnerabilities
safety check

# OWASP ZAP scan
docker run -t owasp/zap2docker-stable zap-baseline.py -t http://localhost:8000

# SSL testing
ssllabs.com scan
```

**Manual Testing**:
- [ ] Attempt SQL injection in all search fields
- [ ] Test CORS with different origins
- [ ] Attempt login with blacklisted user
- [ ] Brute force login (should rate limit after 5 attempts)
- [ ] Test weak passwords (should reject <12 chars)
- [ ] Verify JWT expiration enforcement
- [ ] Test refresh token rotation

### Deployment Readiness Checklist

**Configuration**:
- [ ] `ENVIRONMENT=production`
- [ ] `DEBUG=false`
- [ ] `SECRET_KEY` = 64+ char unique value
- [ ] `FILE_ENCRYPTION_KEY` = Fernet key (backed up)
- [ ] `DATABASE_URL` = production PostgreSQL
- [ ] `REDIS_URL` = production Redis
- [ ] `NEXTCLOUD_URL` = production instance
- [ ] `NEXTCLOUD_PASSWORD` != default
- [ ] `CORS_ORIGINS` = specific domains only (https://)
- [ ] `SECURITY_HEADERS_ENABLED=true`
- [ ] `SMTP_*` credentials rotated
- [ ] `ADMIN_EMAIL` configured

**Infrastructure**:
- [ ] Ubuntu server prepared
- [ ] Docker and docker-compose installed
- [ ] Firewall configured (22, 80, 443)
- [ ] SSL certificate obtained
- [ ] nginx configured with HTTPS
- [ ] Database backups configured
- [ ] Log rotation configured
- [ ] Monitoring setup (optional but recommended)

**Documentation**:
- [ ] Production deployment guide created
- [ ] Secrets management documented
- [ ] Incident response plan created
- [ ] GDPR data deletion workflow documented

### Estimated Timeline

- **Day 1 (4-8 hours)**: Fix 4 critical issues
  - SQL injection fixes (2-3 hours)
  - Secret rotation (1 hour)
  - CORS configuration (30 min)
  - Blacklist enforcement (1 hour)
  - Testing (2-3 hours)

- **Day 2 (4-8 hours)**: Fix high priority issues
  - Rate limiting (2 hours)
  - HTTPS configuration (2 hours)
  - Password consistency (1 hour)
  - Security headers (1 hour)
  - Testing (2 hours)

- **Day 3 (Optional)**: Medium priority hardening
  - Audit logging (2 hours)
  - XSS sanitization (2 hours)
  - Additional testing (2 hours)

**Total**: 1-3 days depending on priority level

### Notes

**Why This Phase is Critical**:
- Application has good architecture and features
- Security fundamentals are in place (JWT, bcrypt, file encryption)
- Only specific vulnerabilities need patching
- Without fixes, production deployment would be **irresponsible and dangerous**

**Post-Fix Benefits**:
- Production-ready security posture
- GDPR compliant
- Protection against common attacks
- Professional security standards
- Multi-user concurrent access safe

---

## Phase 5: Multi-Passenger Claims (Family/Group Claims)

---

[← Back to Roadmap](README.md)
